
# S3 Shardstore

we took inspiration from recent successes in storage system verification [8, 18, 49]

We have experimented with writing these proofs using the Prusti [2] verifier for Rust.

To check that the implementation satisfies the reference model specification, we 
use property-based testing [9], which generates inputs to a test case and checks 
that a user-provided property holds when that test is run

we would like to check that concurrent executions of ShardStore are linearizable
with respect to the sequential reference models. We check
such fine-grained concurrency properties using the Loom
stateless model checker for Rust [28], which implements
the CDSChecker [39] algorithm for sound model checking
in the release/acquire memory model, and uses bounded
partial-order reduction [10] to reduce state explosion.

For these tests, we developed and open-sourced the stateless
model checker Shuttle [47], which implements randomized
algorithms such as probabilistic concurrency testing [5].

AWS has been using the P language for asynchronous
programs [11ś13] to validate the correctness of new S3 features such as strong consistency [36], and using TLA+ to
validate the designs of a number of systems [38]

https://www.amazon.science/publications/using-lightweight-formal-methods-to-validate-a-key-value-storage-node-in-amazon-s3  

# Push-button verification

Yggdrasil [49] is a “push-buttonž verified file system implementation that
formalizes a refinement to define allowed states after a crash.

Helgi Sigurbjarnarson, James Bornholt, Emina Torlak, and Xi Wang.
2016. Push-Button Verification of File Systems via Crash Refinement

# FSCQ 

FSCQ [8] is a formally verified filesystem that instead adopts
a crash-aware Hoare logic to define the allowed crash behaviors of each POSIX system call. 

Haogang Chen, Daniel Ziegler, Tej Chajed, Adam Chlipala, M. Frans
Kaashoek, and Nickolai Zeldovich. 2015. Using Crash Hoare Logic
for Certifying the FSCQ File System

# VeriBetrKV

VeriBetrKV [18] is a more recent effort to verify a key-value store with a focus on 
automated proofs that delivers stronger guarantees than we do at the cost of 
more overhead (“tediumž in their terms): 7 lines of proof for every line of implementation

Recent verification efforts for concurrent storage systems have focused on simple replicated 
disks [6] and journaling file systems [7]

Travis Hance, Andrea Lattuada, Chris Hawblitzel, Jon Howell, Rob
Johnson, and Bryan Parno. 2020. Storage Systems are Distributed
Systems (So Verify Them That Way!). I

