
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/9606458/looking-for-a-good-c-c-wavelet-library-for-signal-processing

http://www.bearcave.com/misl/misl_tech/wavelets/haar.html

Lyon - DSP

=======

Pyramid algo 

Wavelets allow a time series to be viewed in multiple resolutions. Each
resolution reflects a different frequency. The wavelet technique takes averages
and differences of a signal, breaking the signal down into spectrum. All the
wavelet algorithms that I'm familiar with work on time series a power of two
values (e.g., 64, 128, 256...). Each step of the wavelet transform produces two
sets of values: a set of averages and a set of differences (the differences are
referred to as wavelet coefficients). Each step produces a set of averages and
coefficients that is half the size of the input data. For example, if the time
series contains 256 elements, the first step will produce 128 averages and 128
coefficients. The averages then become the input for the next step (e.g., 128
averages resulting in a new set of 64 averages and 64 coefficients). This
continues until one average and one coefficient (e.g., 20) is calculated.

The average and difference of the time series is made across a window of values.
Most wavelet algorithms calculate each new average and difference by shifting
this window over the input data. For example, if the input time series contains
256 values, the window will be shifted by two elements, 128 times, in
calculating the averages and differences. The next step of the calculation uses
the previous set of averages, also shifting the window by two elements. This has
the effect of averaging across a four element window. Logically, the window
increases by a factor of two each time.

In the wavelet literature this tree structured recursive algorithm is referred
to as a pyramidal algorithm.

===========

Haar wavelet

In generating each set of averages for the next level and each set of
coefficients, the Haar transform performs an average and difference on a pair of
values. Then the algorithm shifts over by two values and calculates another
average and difference on the next pair.

The high frequency coefficient spectrum should reflect all high frequency
changes. The Haar window is only two elements wide. If a big change takes place
from an even value to an odd value, the change will not be reflected in the high
frequency coefficients.

Many other wavelet algorithms, like the Daubechies wavelet algorithm, use
overlapping windows, so the high frequency spectrum reflects all changes in the
time series. Like the Haar algorithm, Daubechies shifts by two elements at each
step. However, the average and difference are calculated over four elements, so
there are no "holes".


